The higher they flew with the mirror, the more terribly it grinned: they could hardly hold it fast. 
Higher and higher still they flew, nearer and nearer to the stars, when suddenly the mirror shook so terribly with grinning, that it flew out of their hands and fell to the earth, where it was dashed in a hundred million and more pieces. 
And now it worked much more evil than before; for some of these pieces were hardly so large as a grain of sand, and they flew about in the wide world, and when they got into people's eyes, there they stayed; and then people saw everything perverted, or only had an eye for that which was evil.
"He ain't half so big as ours," returned Submit, stoutly; but her heart sank. 
The Thompson turkey did look very large. 
"Submit! Submit!" called a voice from the Thompson house. Submit slowly got down from the wall. 
"His feathers are a good deal thicker than ours," she said, defiantly, to Sarah. 
"Submit," called the voice, "come right home! I want you to pare apples for the pies. Be quick!". 
Then she went across the yard and into the kitchen door of the Thompson house, like a red robin into a nest. 
Submit had been taught to obey her mother promptly. Mrs. Thompson was a decided woman.
"It doesn't happen all at once," said the Skin Horse. 
"You become. It takes a long time. That's why it doesn't often happen to people who break easily, or have sharp edges, or who have to be carefully kept. 
Generally, by the time you are Real, most of your hair has been loved off and your eyes drop out and you get loose in the joints and very shabby. 
But these things don't matter at all, because once you are Real you can't be ugly, except to people who don't understand."
The story was in season any time between Thanksgiving and New Years; but the papa usually began to tell it in the early part of October, when the farmers were getting in their pumpkins, and the children were asking when they were going to have any squash pies, and the boy had made his first jack-o'-lantern. 
"Well," the papa said, "once there were two little pumpkin seeds, and one was a good little pumpkin seed, and the other was bad--very proud, and vain, and ambitious."
Next morning the woman said, "The little men have made us rich, and we really must show that we are grateful for it. 
They run about so, and have nothing on, and must be cold. 
I'll tell thee what I'll do: I will make them little shirts, and coats, and vests, and trousers, and knit both of them a pair of stockings, and do thou, too, make them two little pairs of shoes." 
The man said, "I shall be very glad to do it;" and one night, when everything was ready, they laid their presents all together on the table instead of the cut-out work, and then concealed themselves to see how the little men would behave.